Welcome to this special update.
Pure worship is under attack in the country of Russia.
In this program, we will update you on our efforts to defend God's precious word the Bible
from those who would seek to ban it in Russia.
We will interview a brother who was present in the courtroom for the recent appeal hearing
regarding the New World translation of the Holy Scriptures.
We will also update you on the court case to seize the property of our branch office in Russia
and show you what has recently taken place to seize the assembly hall complex in St. Petersburg.
As you may be aware, on December 20th, the Leningrad Regional Court denied our appeal of a decision
to ban the Russian-language New World translation, declaring it an extremist publication.
This is against Russian law, specifically according to an amendment to Article 3 of the federal law on extremism
signed by President Putin himself in the fall of 2015.
Quote the Bible, the Koran, the Tanakh, and the Kangir, their contents and quotations from them
cannot be recognized as extremist materials end of quote.
With such a clear law like that in force, any reasonable person would wonder
how could a Russian court ban a Bible?
We're pleased to have with us brother Moses Agiboy, who was present in the courtroom for the recent appeal hearing.
Moses, it's good to see you. Welcome.
Thank you, Mark. It's the privilege to be with you.
Now, Moses, before we discuss the appeal hearing, could you help us understand
how the proceedings against the New World translation have unfolded up until now?
Yes, Mark. This case began back on August 13, 2015, after a prosecutor filed a claim
to declare the New World translation in Russian to be extremist.
At the beginning of the trial, back then in April 2016, the prosecutor demanded
that the court request an expert study from a panel of experts
that who have consistently provided biased reports against Jehovah's Witnesses in the past.
Their so-called studies have been refuted by other unbiased scientific experts as well.
Well, the judge then ruled to join the case and allow time for these experts study of the Bible.
The study was completed and submitted to the court more than a year later on May 22, 2017.
As expected, the biased study was full of outrageous statements that were not based on the facts.
The study even concluded that the New World translation was not a Bible,
since it did not say Bible on the cover.
So, in late July 2017, the court resumed its hearings of the case.
Well, Moses, can you tell us what was it like in the courtroom when the trial resumed in July?
Over a period of four days, there were 30 hours of court hearings.
During that time, our attorneys exposed the so-called expert study and its key claims as unfounded, biased, absurd, inconsistent, and invalid.
Our attorneys prove that the New World translation is consistent with other Russian Bible translations
by having many verses read in two or more Bible translations for comparison.
In fact, some 25 Bible passages were read in the courtroom.
On one occasion, Mark, the judge selected a verse in the New World translation
that may have appeared to him as controversial and asked our lawyer to explain it.
Of course, our lawyer simply asked the diverse be read in all three different translations.
And after that, they all had the same idea and no further explanation was needed.
One of our attorneys described the scene in the courtroom this way, and I caught him, Mark, if I may.
He said, yesterday, the judge read a great manuscript from various translations of the Bible.
The New World translation, the scene without translation, the modern translation, and others.
Many scriptures were read about family life, raising children, and loving our neighbors.
We read some 23 in three different translations for comparison.
The judge himself read all these scriptures.
Just imagine the scene, the courtroom, two prosecutors, three attorneys, and the audience.
In the center, the table seats the judge with five seven translations of the Bible.
The judge opens the various Bible translations, reads aloud, asks questions.
It was a stunning picture.
It reminded us of a well-prepared Bible study.
Well, that's just incredible, Moses.
Well, what were some of the ways that God's Word was attacked during this hearing?
And how did our brothers put up a defense for the Bible?
Yes, the so-called experts attacked the use of God's holy name, Jehovah, in the New World translation.
The expert study states in the New World translation of the Holy Scriptures, the dominant factor of the text is the Jehovah concept.
The Jehovah concept expresses a personified God with such names as Jehovah God,
Jehovah of Armies, the King, Jehovah of Armies, the Holy One of Israel, etc.
Thus, in the opinion of Jehovah's Witnesses, he has the personal name Jehovah.
So the New World translation of the Holy Scriptures does not qualify as a Christian Bible,
but is an independent text and of court.
So in order to expose this attack, the lawyers introduced to the court 10 other Russian Bibles that used the name Jehovah.
They also showed the court poetry by renowned Russian poets as Setyev and Pushkin and books by Kuprin, Gancherov and Dastoyevsky
and excerpts from other classic Russian literature where the name Jehovah is used.
They also pointed to the 19th century Russian language, Makarius Bible, produced by Russian authorless church translators in which the name Jehovah occurs more than 3,500 times.
Moses, it's so good to hear that the brothers were able to defend Jehovah's holy name in the courtroom.
Well, were the brothers able to interview any experts who could also defend God's name, defend the Bible?
Yes, Mark. The court allowed the two experts to present testimony.
Regarding the user God's name, Professor Mikhail Adinsov, a religious scholar, where respected in Russia, who is not one of Jehovah's Witnesses,
a confirmed in front of the court that the name Jehovah has been used by other Russian translations and translators as well, including the translators of the official Bible translation of the Russian authorless church, where the divine name Jehovah occurs some 10 times.
Professor Adinsov read two verses from the church Bible that contained God's personal name, Jehovah.
He also mentioned two authorless church translators, namely Pafsky and Makarius, who both use God's name Jehovah extensively in their translations.
Professor Adinsov gave a thorough explanation regarding the history and meaning of the name Jehovah as well as the long history of its use in Bible translation and in the literature of Christendom.
Thus, he completely refuted their attack on Jehovah's name and the New World translation.
Excellent. Well, what a powerful defense for God's name, Jehovah.
Now, didn't you also say Moses that these so-called experts had said that the New World translation was not a Bible because the word Bible did not appear on the cover?
Yes, Mark. That's right. The study also claimed that the New World translation is not a Bible because it does not expressly say that it is a Bible.
However, Professor Adinsov explained to the court that in line with scientific criteria, the words scriptures and holy scriptures are quite appropriate to describe the Bible.
In addition, our lawyers explained to the court that they were amazed that the court appointed so-called experts claimed to have worked for 287 days on their research and yet missed the simple fact that on the third paragraph of the Bible's forward on page five, it clearly states this new translation of the Bible.
Well, that's just unbelievable, Moses. What other arguments did these so-called experts try to use against God's word the Bible?
Well, the expert study also claimed that Jehovah's Witnesses do not recognize Jesus Christ as the Savior of mankind.
But the first paragraph of the forward to the New World translation Russian edition says exactly the opposite and quotes John 316.
The experts also claimed that the New World translation is not a Bible because it allegedly has been modified to refute the doctrine of the Trinity.
Yet, our lawyers read from the Russian author of the Church Synod of Version, two verses from that translation.
First Corinthians 113, where he says, the head of the Christ is God and John 1428, where Christ Jesus said, for the Father is greater than I am.
So these two verses show that the official Russian author of the Church Bible also refutes the Trinity doctrine.
We could go on and on, Mark, but the fact is that the lower court ruled to ban the New World translation and so we appeared to a higher court.
And the appeal hearing was held on December 20th, 2017, as you rightly said in the beginning.
Well, Moses, could you tell us a little bit about the appeal hearing that took place in December? I know you were in the courtroom. What was it like?
As during the first trials, foreign diplomats from at least four nations, Britain, Netherlands, Switzerland, United States attended the December 20th, 2017, appeal hearing.
Again, there were many brothers and sisters present in the courtroom, because they cared so much about the New World translation.
At the appeal hearing, when none of the three so-called experts could explain the methods they used to carry out their study,
the court itself intervened and ended the questioning of the experts.
In fact, Mrs. Crickover, one of the three experts who made a very revealing statement when she said that the only book that can be called a Bible is one approved by the Russian author of the Church.
And that is marked by the blessing of the patriarch, or that march is word-for-word with such a translation.
When asked, Mrs. Crickover refused to state why she believed that the New World translation is extremist, calling this a legal question.
So you see, Mark, neither the prosecutors, nor the so-called experts, who were questioned, could cite even one verse as an example of extremism in the New World translation Bible.
Thus, again and again, our attorneys exposed that they outstridged and false claims of these so-called experts.
Our attorneys presented a total of 35 scholarly documents containing overwhelming evidence to prove that the New World translation Bible is truly the word of God, but these were all ignored by the court.
So again and again, we had the impression sitting there in the court remark that the purpose of the hearing was not to find out the facts or evidence, etc.
But rather, to go through the legal formalities quickly since the decision had already been made and must be announced today.
In fact, the judges deliberated on the seven hours of testimony for only four minutes before announcing their decision to ban the New World translation.
Well, Moses, thank you so much for sharing this powerful defense that our brothers made in behalf of Jehovah's Holy Name and his precious word, the Bible. We appreciate this report so much.
Thank you, Mark. It was a privilege to be there with the brothers in the courtroom in St. Petersburg.
The attack on pure worship in Russia includes an outright ban on our activities in that land. Now the authorities are moving forward in seizing properties owned by Jehovah's people.
For example, on December 7th, 2017, a hearing was held in the Cestoraretsk District Court regarding the seizing of the Russia branch property at Solnitschnaya.
Brother Richard Devine, a member of the Board of Directors of the Watchtower Bible and Track Society of Pennsylvania, had the privilege of being in attendance at the hearing. Richard, it's good to see you. Welcome.
Thank you, Mark. It's a pleasure to be here. Could you tell us a little bit about the nature of this hearing that you went to Russia to attend? Sure.
When the administrative center of Jehovah's Witnesses in Russia was declared extremist late last year by the courts, it gave the government the ability to seize the administration center's property.
However, when they tried to seize the Bethel Complex, they found out that it legally belonged not to the administrative center, but actually to the Watchtower Bible and Track Society of Pennsylvania.
And that for 17 years, the administrative center had merely been a tenant. Since the Pennsylvania Corporation hadn't been banned, this created a legal obstacle for the government in seizing our property.
So what argument did the government use to try to justify the seizure of the branch property? Well, the government was trying to prove that the transfer of title to the property to the Pennsylvania Corporation 17 years ago wasn't valid, and that the Bethel property still really belonged to the administrative center, and therefore it was fair game for them to seize.
Richard, can you tell us what was it like to be there in the courtroom for this very historic hearing?
Well, a couple of things really impressed me very much, and one was the courage of the local brothers and sisters who came to the hearing despite the ban just to support the brothers presenting our case.
It was truly a remarkable demonstration of strong faith and determination.
The hearing was held in a small drab room in Sester, O.S., a town not far from the former Bethel facility. There was barely room for everyone to fit inside.
Our attorneys and the prosecutors were literally two feet apart, facing each other over a small table.
The brothers and sisters crammed in any space they could find. Some even sitting inside the barred cell reserved for criminal defendants.
Now, Richard, what can you tell us about the hearing itself? What actually took place in the courtroom?
Well, I knew from meeting with them the night before how well our attorneys prepared for this case and how hard they worked on it.
And to see them both want a relatively young brother courageously stand up and defend the interests of Jehovah's people, it was really an amazing sight.
They had real conviction and passion. They demonstrated unequivocally that according to Russian law, the international business law and the provisions of the European Convention on Human Rights, that they were squarely in our favor.
And that to seize our property was not only legally wrong, but it was really morally wrong.
The prosecutors, on the other hand, appeared to be not long out of high school, limited themselves to reading a few short pre-written statements and asked no questions during the hearing.
Well, now, Richard, what was it like when the decision was finally read in the courtroom?
Well, I don't think the decision was really a surprise to anyone. However, it seemed to me that the judge was very uncomfortable reading that verdict.
At the end, she announced that there would be 30 days to file an appeal.
Now, the spirit of the brothers and sisters leaving the courtroom was somber at first.
But once we were out in the hallway, the conversations got going. The brothers and sisters began congratulating the attorneys for the fine witness they had given.
Once again, they were all smiling, laughing, hugging, even giving little gifts to one another. They were once again just happy to be together serving Jehovah.
Well, then, what happens now? Where do we go from here, Richard?
Well, the brothers are planning to file an appeal within the given time.
And if this first appeal goes against us, then the property will be seized by the government and used for other purposes.
However, further appeals, possibly even to the European Court of Human Rights, will be pursued.
Richard, thank you very, very much for giving us that report. And even more, we want to thank you for the courage that you demonstrated in going to Russia to stand with our brothers during that hearing.
It really was my privilege. Thank you.
However, the seizure of our other properties has already begun in Russia.
For example, on December 14, 2017, just after 9 a.m. in the morning, about 40 people, including police and others, appeared outside the assembly hall of Jehovah's Witnesses in St. Petersburg.
Some of the men were armed with automatic weapons, and others had the tools needed to forcibly enter the locked assembly hall compound.
Thankfully, none of our brothers were inside the assembly hall during this raid.
Russian news agencies have reported that based on the Russian Supreme Court ruling earlier this year, the government has seized the property and has transferred it to the neighboring medical center for use as a lecture hall.
They have already posted a new sign on the gate.
In addition to these actions, you may be wondering about our brother Dennis Christensen, who has been in pretrial detention since May 25, 2017.
The court has extended his pretrial detention several times. Most recently, on December 22, 2017, the court extended his detention until February 23, 2018.
The authorities are allowing Brother Christensen's wife to visit him now twice a month.
We expect that his trial will begin sometime in the coming weeks.
What can we say, brothers, about this attack on pure worship in Russia?
Jehovah foretold that during Christ's presence, the kings of the earth and high officials would take their stand against Jehovah and his anointed one.
We find that in Psalm 2 verses 1 to 3.
Thus, we are not surprised to see this direct attack on Jehovah's name, his precious word, the Bible, and his faithful worshipers on this earth.
We must keep in our minds the warning from our Lord Jesus when He said at Matthew chapter 10 and verse 17,
Be on your guard against men, for they will hand you over to local courts and they will scourge you in their synagogues.
And you will be brought before governors and kings for my sake, for a witness to them and to the nations.
However, when they hand you over, do not become anxious about how or what you are to speak, for what you are to speak will be given you in that hour.
For the one speaking are not just you, but it is the spirit of your father that speaks by you.
Further, brother will hand brother over to death and a father, his child and children will rise up against parents and will have them put to death.
And you will be hated by all people on account of my name, but the one who has endured to the end will be saved.
Yes, as Jesus said, all who endure faithfully will ultimately be saved.
Jehovah stated through his prophet at Ezekiel 39 verse 7,
The nations will have to know that I am Jehovah.
Soon, Jehovah will act in behalf of all his servants who, despite opposition and adverse circumstances,
prove that they are truly a people for his name.
This is JW Broadcasting from the World Headquarters of Jehovah's Witnesses.